# Introduction
The price of a product is the most important attribute of marketing that product. One of those products where price matters a lot is a smartphone because it comes with a lot of features so that a company thinks a lot about how to price this mobile which can justify the features and also cover the marketing and manufacturing costs of the mobile. In this article, I will walk you through the task of mobile price classification with Machine Learning using Python.

 # **Problem Statement**

 In the competitive mobile phone market companies want to understand sales data of mobile phones and factors which drive the prices.

**Objective:** Find out some relation between features of a mobile phone (eg: RAM, internal memory, etc.) and it's selling price. Inthis problem we don't have to predict the actual price but a price range indicating how high the price is.

# **Project Summary**

  In this project i have given a dataset of mobile price range prediction. Firstly i have imported the given csv file to the colab notebook. Then imported the important libraries. By exploring the dataset i have found that the given dataset consists of 2000 rows and 21 columns. In this dataset the info is of two types:int(64) and float(64). The given dataset does not contain any duplicate value and missing value. By moving further i have used various basic function such as head(),tail(),info(),describe(),etc.In variable description i have described all my variables.Then i have checked the unique values for each variable.I n this dataset the cost of mobile range prices are divided into four types:low, medium, high, very high. Which are denoted by 0,1,2,3. Then i have counted the count of mobiles which belongs to these price range and all the price range have equal number of mobiles. As there are no null and duplicate value i have not performed data wrangling. T hen i have plotted tables between the variables like the mobile has 4G or not, have bluetooth or not etc. After that i have performed the data visualisation, started with univariate analysis, in this i have plotted a pie chart of price range. Then i have plotted histogram for all the independent variables. Also plotted boxplots and bargraphs in visualisation.And also performed multivariate analysis by plotting heatmap. After the data visualisation part i have started to implement ML models. Firstly, i have used the Linesr regression model and calculated the train score, test score and then precision value, recall value and f1 score. And then i have performed hyperparameter optimization then i got more accuracy of 90% in this model. After this i implemented my second model thst is K-Nearest Neighbors classifier in this also i have calculated the train score, test score, precision value, recall value, and f1 score. Similarly, lastly i have implementd Naive Bayes Classifier.Among all three the accuracy of Linear regression model was very high. So, i have chosen linear regression model for mobile price range prediction.
